The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India released a consultation paper on “Inputs for Formulation of National Broadcasting Policy, 2024”.[28]  In September 2023, TRAI had released a pre-consultation paper seeking inputs for formulating a National Broadcasting Policy.[29]  The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting had also released a draft Broadcasting Services (Regulation) Bill, 2023 for comments in November 2023.[30]  TRAI has sought views on key issues such as:

Growth of the broadcasting sector:  As per TRAI, there are approximately 100 million homes without television.  It has invited suggestions on strategies for making TV services more affordable.  The consultation paper also observes a heavy reliance on imported equipment in the sector.  This includes imported devices and components for assembly. Hence, it has sought inputs on promoting R&D and domestic manufacturing. 

India as a global content hub:  The paper cites various methods used by other countries to promote local content.  These include: (i) France’s requirement of 40% of television shows broadcast to be produced locally, and (ii) Brazil’s local content quota of 210 minutes in prime time (content produced by independent Brazilian producers).  Comments have been invited on measures to promote content produced in India. 

Policy and regulatory changes:  Comments have been invited on regulatory changes to grow the sector and ensure ease of compliance.  The paper gives the example of infrastructure sharing.  As per TRAI, since the two sectors are converging in technology, they can share infrastructure.  For instance, Prasar Bharti infrastructure is currently shared with radio operators for co-location.  Comments have also been invited on ensuring a healthy competitive environment between existing and emerging technologies. 

Piracy and content security:  The paper notes that piracy causes an annual loss of about Rs 20,000 crore to the film industry.  Thus, TRAI has sought comments on additional measures to be taken to combat piracy and to enhance content security.  This is to detect and prevent the unauthorised distribution of content.